>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so we wanna
do something useful with these inputs,
we wanna start deciding what to do.
So let's just write some if-logic for
a moment.
Let's just say, if (args.help),
then we know we wanna print the help.
>> Kyle Simpson: That means,
if there's a --help anywhere in there,
even if there's other stuff,
it sort of overrides everything.
It says, I definitely wanna see the help.
So if args.help has been specified,
we wanna print the help.
Then let's have an else if clause that,
else if (args.file), in other words,
that's been specified, and
it's a non-empty string,
then we're gonna go on and
do something with that file.
So maybe we'll just print out whatever
the contents of args.file are.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then lastly, we wanna say,
if we didn't pass in help, and
we didn't pass in a file parameter?
We wanna treat that as an error condition,
because you didn't do what was required,
you didn't do the minimum-require.
So we're gonna do an else condition,
and I'm gonna define a little helper for
myself, called error.
So down here at the bottom,
I'm going to write, function error.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's gonna take
a message, and what I'm going to do
is console.error the message
that we're printing.
But I also wanna do one other
little thing, which is typically,
if there's an error, in some cases
you want to just show the error.
But in other cases, if it's a mis-usage,
you wanna go ahead and
print the help for them to see.
So I'm gonna include,
I'm gonna have a parameter here
called includeHelp, and
we'll default that to false.
>> Kyle Simpson: And so we'll print
the error message, and then if includeHelp
we'll put a separating empty line,
and then we'll call printHelp.
>> Kyle Simpson: So up in our else clause,
then, we'll use this helper, we'll say,
>> Kyle Simpson: Incorrect usage.
>> Kyle Simpson: And we want to pass true,
to tell it to go ahead and print the help.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's try
it without any input at all.
>> Kyle Simpson: And you'll see now,
we've got the incorrect usage, and
then it printed the help.
We could try it with a --help,
and we only get the help, or
we can try it with a --file that has
no value, and it says incorrect usage.
Or if we actually give it a value,
like hello, then it prints that input.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now, we are
successfully receiving inputs to our Node
program, and using them to make decisions.
Let's also not forget that
we should update our help,
so that it is useful to somebody.
This is, again, so
easy to forget to do, and
then later on, we're pulling our hair out.
So let's make sure we update
this with something useful.
>> Kyle Simpson: Be as
creative as you'd like
with your help output.
A quick note on minimist.
If you were to look up and minimist and
see, you would find that literally
tens of thousands of other packages
in existence rely upon minimist.
It has no dependencies itself, and
it is depended upon by almost every
other major package out there.
It's a really good, solid way of handling,
which is why I picked it for
the purposes of this exercise,
good, solid way of handling it.
It is very low level, it's very
bare-bones, it doesn't have a ton.
If you go look up the documentation for
it,
it doesn't have a lot of details to it.
So if you want something
a bit more sophisticated,
there are a few that I might recommend.
In particular, I would recommend
one called Yargs, Y-args.
It uses minimist, and
it wraps on top of minimist.
It uses this special syntax where you
define what your options are, and
what their types are.
And one of the benefits of Yargs,
one of the many benefits, is that it will
automatically generate your help
output from your args configuration.
So if you don't wanna manually keep
your help updated, Yargs is another one.
Just a quick little note on Yargs.
When you go and
look at the documentation for that,
you will find out that the author of that,
and I know him, he's a great guy.
But the author of that package really
went all in on the pirate theme.
Yargs, the entire documentation,
everything,
all the examples,
they're all in pirate-speak.
So that might be good just for
the entertainment value,
even if you don't
actually wanna use Yargs.
But anyway, I like to use minimist,
I probably use that 95%of the time.
Every once in a while,
I use one of those sophisticated packages.